### (감성과학, 2020, 23-3)
# Effects of low-level visual attributes on threat detection: Testing the snake detection theory

## Taehoon Kim, Dasom Kwon, & Do-Joon Yi

The snake detection theory posits that, due to competition with snakes, the primate visual system has been evolved to detect camouflaged snakes. Specifically, one of its hypotheses states that the subcortical visual pathway mainly consisting of koniocellular cells enables humans to automatically detect the threat of snakes without consuming mental resources. Here, we tested the hypothesis by comparing human participants’ responses to snakes with those to fearful faces and flowers. Participants viewed either original images or converted ones, which lacked the differences in color, luminance, contrast, and spatial frequency energies between categories. While participants in Experiment 1 produced valence and arousal ratings to each image, those in Experiment 2 detected target images in the breaking continuous flash suppression (bCFS) paradigm. As a result, visual factors influenced the responses to snakes most strongly. After minimizing visual differences, snakes were rated as being less negative and less arousing, and detected more slowly from suppression. In contrast, the images of the other categories were less affected by image conversion. Especially, fearful faces were rated as greater threats and detected more quickly than other categories. In addition, for snakes, changes in arousal ratings and those in bCFS response times were negatively correlated: Those snake images, the arousal ratings of which decreased, produced increased detection latency. These findings suggest that the influence of snakes on human responses to threat is limited relative to fearful faces, and that detection responses in bCFS share common processing mechanisms with conscious ratings. In conclusion, the current study calls into question the assumption that snake detection in humans is a product of unconscious subcortical visual processing.
